getpaid.core/branches/brandon-no-overrides/src/getpaid/core/doc/writing-a-payment-processor.rst, before:


Writing a Payment Processor for GetPaid
=======================================

Welcome, developers!

This document is intended to be a comprehensive guide to writing payment
processors for the GetPaid e-commerce framework.  At the moment, it is a
mere draft. Actually, it is worse than a mere draft: it is actually
simply a proposal, describing interfaces which are not yet even written.

Why do I write about fictions?  Because I, Brandon Rhodes, am looking to
clean up and improve how payment processors are written in GetPaid, and
this guide to a fictitious development process is the best way I know to
get everyone to think through my ideas about how payment processor
integration should work.

So, sit down, grab a cup of coffee, and imagine with me what it might
soon be like to write a GetPaid payment processor.

On-site and Off-site Processing
-------------------------------

The first thing we need to establish is the difference between the two
kinds of payment processor that GetPaid can use.

The essential distinction is whether the user's web browser ever gets
redirected away from your GetPaid-powered web site and to the web site
of the payment company you are using.

* If the user never leaves your web site, and their web browser never
  sends a GET or POST to the payment processing system you are using,
  then you are doing “on-site” payment processing: GetPaid is powering
  the entire user experience.  The form that contains the user's credit
  cart number will POST to GetPaid's checkout form, and the actual
  process of contacting the merchant processing system to charge their
  card happens behind the scenes from the user's point of view.

* If the user *does* leave your site, such that the user's browser POSTs
  a form to the payment processor's web site, or is redirected there to
  finish entering their credit card information, then you are doing
  “off-site” payment processing.  This is true even if the user does not
  know that they were sent off-site because their POST was immediately
  followed by a redirect back to your own site: as long as the credit
  card number POSTs to some other web site, you are dealing with an
  “off-site” solution.

This distinction is crucial, because there are many restrictions and
liabilities these days for web servers that are going to handle credit
card data.  An off-site payment processing system that receives the
credit card number for you without ever letting your site see it, like
PayPal or Google Checkout, is a very popular way for site administrators
to wash their hands of the whole affair and put somebody else on the
hook for handling sensitive financial data.

The distinction is also crucial for you, the GetPaid developer, because
it determines whether you are going to have to interact with the GetPaid
user interface — all of those forms and buttons that are presented to
the user.  While running an on-site payment processor places a high
security burden on your web servers, they are at least relatively easy
payment processors to write: you just have to make three functions,
:func:`authorize()`, :func:`capture()`, and :func:`refund()`, with which
GetPaid can create and finalize a charge against a customer's credit
card.  Off-site payment processors, on the other hand, have to step into
the GetPaid checkout process at some point and subvert it so that the
user's browser is sent elsewhere.

Payment Processor Basics
------------------------

Whether you are writing an on-site or off-site payment processor, you
will need to create a Python class that tells GetPaid everything about
interfacing with your payment processor.  The first information that
GetPaid will need is what kind of payment processor you are writing, and
what the processor should be called in the menu from which the store
owner selects which payment processor to use.  The top of your payment
processor class definition will look something like this::

    from getpaid.core.processors import OnSitePaymentProcessor

    from zope.i18nmessageid import MessageFactory
    _ = MessageFactory('getpaid.chargeit')

    class ChargeIt(OnSitePaymentProcessor):
        name = 'charge-it'
        title = _(u'ChargeIt checkout')
        ...

First, notice that the payment processor inherits from an appropriate
base class imported from :mod:`getpaid.core.processors`:

* :class:`OnSitePaymentProcessor` for on-site payment.
* :class:`OffSitePaymentProcessor` for off-site payment.

While this is not strictly necessary, it sets up several small features
that your class will need that you would otherwise have to add yourself.
Look up the definitions of each class in :mod:`getpaid.core` if you are
curious to see what these are.

Second, a payment processor needs to declare a ``name`` that can be used
in URLs and in other places where a brief string is needed to identify a
given payment processor.  The ``name`` should consist only of lower-case
letters and dashes.

Finally, each payment processor needs to provide a ``title`` for use in
the GetPaid admin interface.  When a store owner is setting up GetPaid,
they are given a menu of available payment processors to choose from.
The string you provide as ``title`` will be the name of the choice that
the store owner can click to select your payment processor.

Payment Processor Options
-------------------------

Next, each payment processor needs to define the configuration options
that the store owner will need to provide for the payment processor to
operate.  The resulting form might look something like this::

             Charge-It Options

    Merchant account:  __________________
    Merchant password: __________________

    Processing mode:  ☑ Sandbox
                      ☐ Production

Be sure, by the way, to include an option that lets the store owner
choose between “sandbox mode” and “production mode”.  When the former is
selected, your package should still make real API calls to the payment
service, but credit card processing should not actually take place; this
lets store owners test and develop their site but without making actual
purchases.  Look through the payment service's documentation for how
this feature can be selected with their particular API, and then make
sure you give the option to store owners.

To define your processor options, simply create a Zope schema.  For the
sample form shown above, you might write::

    from getpaid.core.interfaces import IPaymentProcessorOptions

    from zope.i18nmessageid import MessageFactory
    _ = MessageFactory('getpaid.chargeit')

    class IChargeItOptions(IPaymentProcessorOptions):
        """Charge-It checkout configuration options."""

        account = schema.ASCIILine(title=_(u"Merchant account"))
        password = schema.ASCIILine(title=_(u"Merchant password"))
        mode = schema.Choice(
            title = _(u"Processing mode"),
            values = (_(u"Sandbox"), _(u"Production")),
            )

To designate this interface as your configuration schema, simply
reference it from your payment processor with a class variable named
``options_schema``.  This expands the sample payment processor
definition cited above so that it reads::

    class ChargeIt(OnSitePaymentProcessor):
        name = 'charge-it'
        title = u'ChargeIt checkout'
        options_schema = IChargeItOptions
        ...

Once you have created your options schema and referenced it from your
payment processor class, you are done!  GetPaid will automatically
provide the store owner with a form for configuring your payment
processor, and save the values they enter.  Later, when a customer is
checking out, any of your routines that get called will be passed a
``config`` object, already adapted to your schema, whose attributes
contain the values specified by the site owner.

Using ZCML to declare your processor
------------------------------------

The last feature that all payment processors have in common is that they
need a ZCML declaration that makes them available to GetPaid through the
Zope Component Framework.  This file needs a single declaration that
makes your payment processor available as a utility for GetPaid.  To be
a good world citizen, you might also think about throwing in a
translations declaration as well while you're at it:

.. code-block:: xml

    <configure xmlns="http://namespaces.zope.org/zope"
               xmlns:i18n="http://namespaces.zope.org/i18n">

      <i18n:registerTranslations directory="locales" />

      <utility
        provides="getpaid.core.interfaces.IOnSitePaymentProcessor"
        factory=".processor.ChargeIt" />

    </configure>

This file should always be named :file:`configure.zcml` and be located
in the base directory of your package.  If, for example, you are writing
the package ``getpaid.chargeit``, then the ZCML file would be located
at::

    getpaid/chargeit/configure.zcml

This ZCML file will be scanned when your package is loaded as part of a
web site's configuration, and will be how GetPaid discovers your payment
processor and puts it on the list of available processors in the site's
admin interface in the first place.

Writing the rest of your payment processor
------------------------------------------

Once you have taken the steps above, you will have a skeleton payment
processor that does everything it needs to except, of course, process
payments.

Since on-site and off-site payment processors are so different, I have
written two completely separate chapters on how to construct them.  At
this point, follow the appropriate link to find out more about the kind
of payment processor you are trying to construct.  Read carefully, ask
questions on the mailing list, and point out areas where the
documentation can be improved.  Thanks, and good luck!

* :doc:`on-site-payment-processors`
* :doc:`off-site-payment-processors`

Commit message:

Tweaked opening page of documentation while re-reading it after a week away.

getpaid.core/branches/brandon-no-overrides/src/getpaid/core/doc/writing-a-payment-processor.rst, after:


Writing a Payment Processor for GetPaid
=======================================

Welcome, developers!

This document is intended to be a comprehensive guide to writing payment
processors for the GetPaid e-commerce framework.  At the moment, it is a
mere draft. Actually, it is worse than a mere draft: it is actually
simply a proposal, describing interfaces which are not yet even written.

Why do I write about fictions?  Because I, Brandon Rhodes, am looking to
clean up and improve how payment processors are written in GetPaid, and
this guide to a fictitious development process is the best way I know to
get everyone to think through my ideas about how payment processor
integration should work.

So, sit down, grab a cup of coffee, and imagine with me what it might
soon be like to write a GetPaid payment processor.

On-site and Off-site Processing
-------------------------------

The first thing we need to establish is the difference between the two
kinds of payment processor that GetPaid can use.

The essential distinction is whether the user's web browser ever gets
redirected away from your GetPaid-powered web site and on to the web
site of the payment company you are using.

* If the user never leaves your web site, and their web browser never
  sends a GET or POST to the payment processing system you are using,
  then you are doing “on-site” payment processing: GetPaid is powering
  the entire user experience.  The form that contains the user's credit
  cart number will POST to GetPaid's checkout form, and the actual
  process of contacting the merchant processing system to charge their
  card happens behind the scenes from the user's point of view.

* If the user *does* leave your site, such that the user's browser GETs
  a page or POSTs a form to the payment processor's web site, or is
  redirected there to finish entering their credit card information,
  then you are doing “off-site” payment processing.  This is true even
  if the user does not know that they are sent off-site because their
  POST is immediately followed by a redirect back to your own site: as
  long as the credit card number POSTs to some other web site, you are
  dealing with an “off-site” payment processor.

This distinction is crucial, because there are many restrictions and
liabilities these days for web servers that are going to handle credit
card data.  An off-site payment processing system that receives the
credit card number on your behalf without ever letting your server see
it, like PayPal or Google Checkout, is a very popular way for site
administrators to wash their hands of the whole affair and put somebody
else on the hook for handling sensitive financial data.

The distinction is also crucial for you, the GetPaid developer, because
it determines whether you are going to have to interact with the GetPaid
user interface — all of those forms and buttons that are presented to
the user.  While running an on-site payment processor places a high
security burden on your web servers, they are at least relatively easy
payment processors to write: you just have to make three functions,
:func:`authorize()`, :func:`capture()`, and :func:`refund()`, with which
GetPaid can create and finalize a charge against a customer's credit
card.  Off-site payment processors, on the other hand, have to step into
the GetPaid checkout process at some point and subvert it so that the
user's browser is sent elsewhere — a more complicated arrangement that
can involve redirects, special forms, and writing entire HTML views.

Payment Processor Basics
------------------------

Whether you are writing an on-site or off-site payment processor, you
will need to create a Python class that tells GetPaid everything about
interfacing with your payment processor.  The first information that
GetPaid will need is which kind of payment processor you are writing,
and what the processor should be called in the menu from which the store
owner selects which payment processor to use.  The top of your payment
processor class definition will look something like this::

    from getpaid.core.processors import OnSitePaymentProcessor

    from zope.i18nmessageid import MessageFactory
    _ = MessageFactory('getpaid.chargeit')

    class ChargeIt(OnSitePaymentProcessor):
        name = 'charge-it'
        title = _(u'ChargeIt checkout')
        ...

First, notice that the payment processor inherits from an appropriate
base class imported from :mod:`getpaid.core.processors`:

* :class:`OnSitePaymentProcessor` for on-site payment.
* :class:`OffSitePaymentProcessor` for off-site payment.

While this is not strictly necessary, it sets up several small features
that your class will need that you would otherwise have to add yourself.
Look up the definitions of each class in :mod:`getpaid.core` if you are
curious to see what these are.

Second, a payment processor needs to declare a ``name`` that can be used
in URLs and in other places where a brief string is needed to identify a
given payment processor.  The ``name`` should consist only of lower-case
letters and dashes.

Finally, each payment processor needs to provide a ``title`` for use in
the GetPaid admin interface.  When a store owner is setting up GetPaid,
they are given a menu of available payment processors to choose from.
The string you provide as ``title`` will be the name of the choice that
the store owner can select to use your particular payment processor.

Payment Processor Options
-------------------------

Next, each payment processor needs to define the configuration options
that the store owner will need to specify for the payment processor to
operate.  The resulting form might look something like this::

             Charge-It Options

    Merchant account:  __________________
    Merchant password: __________________

    Processing mode:  ☑ Sandbox
                      ☐ Production

Be sure, by the way, to include an option that lets the store owner
choose between “sandbox mode” and “production mode”.  When the former is
selected, your package should still make real API calls to the payment
service, but credit card processing should not actually take place; this
lets store owners test and develop their site but without making actual
purchases.  Look through the payment service's documentation for how
this feature can be selected with their particular API, and then make
sure you give the option to store owners.

To define your processor options, simply create a Zope schema.  For the
sample form shown above, you might write::

    from getpaid.core.interfaces import IPaymentProcessorOptions

    from zope.i18nmessageid import MessageFactory
    _ = MessageFactory('getpaid.chargeit')

    class IChargeItOptions(IPaymentProcessorOptions):
        """Charge-It checkout configuration options."""

        account = schema.ASCIILine(title=_(u"Merchant account"))
        password = schema.ASCIILine(title=_(u"Merchant password"))
        mode = schema.Choice(
            title = _(u"Processing mode"),
            values = (_(u"Sandbox"), _(u"Production")),
            )

To designate this interface as your configuration schema, simply
reference it from your payment processor with a class variable named
``options_schema``.  This expands the sample payment processor
definition cited above so that it reads::

    class ChargeIt(OnSitePaymentProcessor):
        name = 'charge-it'
        title = u'ChargeIt checkout'
        options_schema = IChargeItOptions
        ...

Once you have created your options schema and referenced it from your
payment processor class, you are done!  GetPaid will automatically
provide the store owner with a form for configuring your payment
processor, and save the values they enter.  Later, when a customer is
checking out, any of your routines that get called will be passed a
``config`` object, already adapted to your schema, whose attributes
contain the values specified by the site owner.

Using ZCML to declare your processor
------------------------------------

The last feature that all payment processors have in common is that they
need a ZCML declaration that makes them available to GetPaid through the
Zope Component Framework.  This file needs a single declaration that
makes your payment processor available as a utility for GetPaid.  To be
a good world citizen, you might also think about throwing in a
translations declaration as well while you're at it:

.. code-block:: xml

    <configure xmlns="http://namespaces.zope.org/zope"
               xmlns:i18n="http://namespaces.zope.org/i18n">

      <i18n:registerTranslations directory="locales" />

      <utility
        provides="getpaid.core.interfaces.IOnSitePaymentProcessor"
        factory=".processor.ChargeIt" />

    </configure>

This file should always be named :file:`configure.zcml` and be located
in the base directory of your package.  If, for example, you are writing
the package ``getpaid.chargeit``, then the ZCML file would be located
at::

    getpaid/chargeit/configure.zcml

This ZCML file will be scanned when your package is loaded as part of a
web site's configuration, and will be how GetPaid discovers your payment
processor and puts it on the list of available processors in the site's
admin interface in the first place.

Writing the rest of your payment processor
------------------------------------------

Once you have taken the steps above, you will have a skeleton payment
processor that does everything it needs to except, of course, process
payments.

Since on-site and off-site payment processors are so different, I have
written two completely separate chapters on how to construct them.  At
this point, follow the appropriate link to find out more about the kind
of payment processor you are trying to construct.  Read carefully, ask
questions on the mailing list, and point out areas where the
documentation can be improved.  Thanks, and good luck!

* :doc:`on-site-payment-processors`
* :doc:`off-site-payment-processors`
