#summary Install product in Quick Installer
#labels Phase-Design,AdminUI

An authenticated site administrator goes to the "site setup" section of the site and clicks on "Add/Remove Products". The site admin selects the PloneGetPaid product, and clicks "Install". If all the dependencies were in place, the product installs successfully. If not, the product installs dependenices. If there is a problem (for example, GetPaid is not installed on the server), then an error message explaining the dependency problem is created on the error log.

After a successful installation, the "GetPaid Settings" link appears in the Plone Configuration menu. 

==Future Possibilities==
Payment options: Specify multiple options available to site users (paypal, google, cash/check, credit card via phone, pay later...).


#summary It should be possible to set up the payment processor via the configuration configlet found in Site Setup (in the Addon Product Configuration area). Payment processor is a tab in the configuration screens. 

Configlet options:

Displays a dropdown (single select) list of all possible options for merchant agencies. List of agencies:

    * Authorize.net
    * PayFlowPro
    * GoogleCheckout
    * 2Checkout
    * Future: Need an international option (ZenCart?)
    * Future: PayPal
    * Future: NOVA/viaKLIX


When the site admin selects an option from the list for the payment processor, the corresponding fields for the processor are displayed. The site admin fills out the required settings and then clicks "save". Errors point out any missing, required fields.

Links to developer documentation are located here: http://code.google.com/p/getpaid/wiki/PaymentProcessors