#labels Phase-Design,AdminUI
=Choose A Currency=

==Available Settings for Site Payment Settings==
Please set the following information about how payments are handled for your site.

    * Currency:
      Currency Formatting

Select the appropriate currency formatting option from the drop-down list. The choices are European, generic, and U.S. currency formatting.
European Currency Formatting

Select this option to use one country's currency, and also to display the converted value in Euros.

When you select this option, a new tab, European Currency Formatting, is added at the top section of the Edit Store screen. Click that link, and configure the following settings there:

Currency Symbol
    Enter the symbol or abbreviation to use for the country's currency. For instance: DEM, FRF, . or .
Before Amount, or After Amount
    Specify where the currency symbol should be located, relative to the value in the country's currency .
Thousands Separator
    Enter the symbol that will appear between groups of digits in large numbers. For instance, the digit grouping symbol here is a comma: $2,646,200.00
Decimal Symbol
    Enter a symbol to go between the whole and decimal parts of the currency value. A period is used in this example: 178.00
Conversion Rate to Euros
    Enter the multiplier by which your currency will be converted to Euros. Remember to update this conversion rate regularly, so your pricing will remain accurate as currencies fluctuate.
Before Amount, or After Amount
    Specify where the currency symbol should be located, relative to the value in Euros.
Primary Currency (we will not offer secondary currency now)
    Either the country's currency, or Euros, will be displayed in the store as the primary (only) unit of currency. Select which to use at the primary currency in your store.

Generic Currency Formatting

It would be impossible to catalog (and anticipate) the formatting for all the world's currencies. Select this option to customize all aspects of displaying your currency.

When you select this option, a new tab, Generic Currency Formatting, is added at the top section of the Edit Store screen. Click that link, and configure the following settings there:

Currency Symbol
    Select the list option, and choose one of the symbols from the list, or select Other, and specify any symbol.
Positive Currency Format
    Specify where the currency symbol should be located, relative to a number indicating a positive value. The position of the currency symbol, indicated in the listed choices by a square placeholder symbol, can go before or after the number, with, or without, a space between the symbol and the number.
Negative Currency Format
    Specify the appearance of negative currency values. The position of the currency symbol is represented by a square placeholder symbol, Formats are similar to those for positive values, but with the addition of parentheses and/or a negative symbol.
Digit Grouping Symbol
    Enter the symbol that will appear between groups of digits in large numbers. For instance, the digit grouping symbol here is a comma: $4,356,500.00
Number of Digits in Group
    Select the number of digits to go between each grouping symbol. In the examle above there are 3 digits between each comma.
Decimal Symbol
    Enter a symbol to go between the whole and decimal parts of the currency value. A period is used in this example: $99.95
Number of Digits after Decimal
    Select the number of digits to be displayed after the decimal symbol. In both of the above examples, the number of digits after the decimal is 2.

US Currency Formatting

Formats the currency as standard US currency with dollar sign, commas at thousands, and two decimal places for cents. No currency link is displayed at the top of the form.


