#summary A listing of How-Tos and Tutorials that will be needed for end users
#labels Phase-Support,Documentation,Featured


== General Questions ==

  * What functionality does GetPaid offer? [FunctionalityDoc Answer]
  * What will the next release do and when will it be released? [ReleaseDoc Answer]
  * How does a session-based cart work?
  * What happens when a user places an order on my site (offline vs online order completion)?

==Using the Product==

  * What are the steps for installing and uninstalling the product? [InstallProductDoc Answer]
  * What basic settings must be configured so that an order can be processed? [ConfigureProductDoc Answer]
  * How do I set up a payment processor in GetPaid? [SetUpPaymentProcessorDoc Answer]
  * How do I add a donation to the site? [AddDonationDoc Answer]
  * How do I add a product to the site?
  * What is the difference between adding a donation to a site versus making something buyable?
  * How do I manage my orders? 
  * How do I make a content object payable? Not payable? [MakeObjectPayableDoc Answer]

== Customization and Extension ==

  * How should I make customizations to the product? [CustomizationsBestPracticesDoc Answer]
  * How do I build an extension of the product? 
  * How do I make my custom content type integrate with the product (so I can make it buyable)? [CustomContentTypeDevelopmentDoc Answer]
  * How do I make a donation appear in a portlet vs within the page content? 
  * How do I make an "Add to Cart" button appear in the body of the content on my site?
  * How do I change the "Add to Cart" text or make it a button? 
  * How do I translate GetPaid to another language? [TranslateGetPaid Answer]

  _Not implemented yet_
  * How do I configure my currency?
  * How do I set up my shipping information? 
  * How do I create a category and add products to the category? 

== Payment Processor Questions ==

  * What payment processors are supported now? [http://www.plonegetpaid.com/features/payment-processors Answer]
  * When will payment processor <my favorite processor> be supported?
  * Authorize.net: 
    * How do I get a test or dev account? [http://developer.authorize.net/support/ Submit request form]
    * Are there test credit card numbers I can use? [http://developer.authorize.net/faqs/#7429 See authnet doc]
    * How do I get an authorize.net account? 
    * How do I get my merchant ID and transaction key? [http://developer.authorize.net/faqs/#7423 See authnet doc]
    * How do I set up my gateway to accept international credit cards? [AcceptInternationalCardsDoc Answer] 

== Developer Concerns ==
  
  * What are the dependencies for GetPaid? [DependenciesDoc Answer]
  * What unit tests are available?
  * How do I write an adapter for a new payment processor? 
 