Project Home Page

Welcome to GetPaid, a project to make payment processing product for Plone that can be extended into other commerce-related projects! (note: we are changing our name from PloneCommerce, so please bear with us for inconsistencies).
News (newest information at the top)

    * PloneGetPaid is now on plone.org. We will use the product page for issue tracker, milestones, and development management.
    * Communication.
      - weekly group meeting: Wed, March 28, 1pm EST (click here to read meeting minutes from Mar 21)
      - migrate documentation to proposals/plips
      - issue tracker on plone.org
      - sprint in Italy, tentatively Mar 28/29, Wed and Thurs, sprint for GetPaid
    * Next Sprint at GooglePlex! Join plone commerce work for the next sprint, June 25-29 at GooglePlex. This will be a combo documentation and development sprint on the commerce theme. More info here.
    * BBQ Sprint concludes. We just concluded four great days of sprinting with the TriZPUG and Camp5'ers. Check out the evolving report from the GetPaid project. Work is still going on by several of those who attended the sprint. 

Get Involved
If you are interested in this topic, we encourage you to join the project by contacting the organizer, contribute your ideas to this wiki, and add yourself to our mailing list. We also have development and documentation sprints to advance this (see below) or find us at the irc.freenode.net channel #getpaid.

**New** We are having regular conference calls on the project, since it is moving so quickly. Wednesdays at 1pm Eastern. Join #getpaid to get the details each week.


Project Overview

Every serious web platform has tools for payment processing, but this has been an area that Plone has not yet resolved. With a rapidly growing body of users who are demanding this functionality, we need to make it easy to process simple payments through the site out-of-the-box (ie donations). Additionally, with a fleet of developers ready to make useful tools, we need a general framework for commerce in Plone that enables developers to build products for Plone that involve more sophisticated commerce applications (and not have to reinvent the basic stuff in the process).

    * ((The Problem)) - statement(s) of the problem(s) to be solved with PloneCommerce
    * ((Plone Commerce Background)) - the current state of commerce and payment processing in Plone, and the roots of this group at Plone Conference 2006.
    * ((Project Goals and Success Factors))
    * ((Description of Products)) - vision for GetPaid as a foundational product and its complementary product ideas.


Product Creation Information

    * ((Product Naming and Marketing))
    * ((Wish List)) - all the things your heart desires...(related to PloneCommerce)
    * ((Solution Design)) - evolving ideas and structure for GetPaid and the pieces in the Product Ecosystem
    * ((User Stories)) for GetPaid and complementary products
    * ((Payment Processors)) - information on the tools we gotta integrate
    * ((Security)) - things to consider about how to store -- sessions, PAS, etc.
    * ((Privacy)) - privacy requirements vary by country
    * ((Product Views)) - a functional breakdown of available views on the site
    * ((Testing and QA)) - doctests and other aspects of testing

    * ((Documentation)) - end user, integrator, and developer docs


Work Space

    * Product page on plone.org: http://plone.org/products/plonegetpaid
    * SVN space: GetPaid and PloneGetPaid
    * ((To Do List)) for development, documentation, etc
    * ((InBox)) stuff to be dealt with / integrated into the content of this wiki


Older docs

    * ((Resources)) - info we may need to design and implement PloneCommerce
    * ((Project Help)) - who has offered help and what they bring to the group
