#summary How to get getpaid.formgen

= Introduction =

I saw (on AugustSprint) that there was a need to create this page (and a page for how to use getpaid.formgen, but one thing at a time!). Because getpaid.formgen is not available as an egg yet (as of January 2009), getting it can be a little challenging. I hope this saves you some time!

Throughout the documentation, you'll see _(untested)_. This is because all I did was download the tar.gz, link it to my src/ folder, and re-run buildout. If you do things differently--and it works--please update this document to help others.

= Details =

Because getpaid.formgen is not available as an egg yet, you need to find some way to get the code. You can either
  * hg checkout getpaid.formgen from the mercurial repository anonymously at http://mercurial.intuxication.org/hg/getpaid-formgen _(untested)_
  * hg checkout getpaid.formgen from the mercurial repository securely (i.e., with Write access) by contacting DanielHolth _(untested)_
  * download the files (as tar.bz2, zip, or tar.gz) from http://mercurial.intuxication.org/hg/getpaid-formgen/archive/tip.tar.bz2, http://mercurial.intuxication.org/hg/getpaid-formgen/archive/tip.zip, or http://mercurial.intuxication.org/hg/getpaid-formgen/archive/tip.tar.gz, respectively

Now, you need to let your instance know about the code.

If you're not using Buildout: _(untested)_
  # Because getpaid.formgen is not in the magic "Products" namespace, you have to copy or link the files under zope2/lib/python/getpaid/formgen.
  # {{{cd }}}my-site-path{{{/zope2/lib/python}}}.
  # {{{ls getpaid}}}. See if there's already a getpaid folder (there probably is).
  # If there is, {{{cd getpaid}}}. Else, {{{mkdir getpaid; cd getpaid}}}.
  # To link: {{{ln -s }}}path-to-workspace/getpaid-formgen-hexvalue{{{/getpaid/formgen ./formgen}}}. To copy: {{{cp -R }}}path-to-downloaded-files/getpaid-formgen-hexvalue{{{/getpaid/formgen/* ./formgen}}}.
  # getpaid.formgen depends on Products.DataGridField. Get it here: http://plone.org/products/datagridfield.

If you're using Buildout:
  # You can use getpaid.formgen as a development egg by copying or linking the files under src/.
  # {{{cd }}}buildout-path{{{/src}}}.
  # To link: {{{ln -s }}}path-to-workspace/getpaid-formgen-hexvalue{{{/getpaid ./getpaid}}}. To copy _(untested)_: {{{cp -R }}}path-to-downloaded-files/getpaid-formgen-hexvalue{{{/getpaid/* ./getpaid}}}.
  # {{{cd ..}}} to get to your buildout root again.
  # edit your buildout.cfg with something like {{{nano buildout.cfg}}} and make the following additions:
    *
{{{
[buildout]
eggs =
    getpaid.formgen
develop = 
   src/getpaid.formgen

[instance]
zcml =
    getpaid.formgen
}}}
    * That is, if you don't have a list of eggs in the `[buildout`] part of your buildout.cfg, add it with getpaid.formgen as a value. If you have it, add getpaid.formgen to the list of values. `[instance`] is what my plone.recipe section is called; yours may be different.
  # {{{./bin/buildout -vvvv}}}
    * You can't simply run {{{./bin/buildout -No}}} because getpaid.formgen will tell zc.buildout to grab Products.DataGridField for you.

Finally, fire up your instance.

You should see getpaid.formgen listed in mydomain:myport/Control_Panel/Products/manage_main and mydomain:myport/mySite/portal_quickinstaller/manage_installProductsForm

Install the product.

Also, install DataGridField.