#summary Just a catchall place so we can list out items that would be nice in the future but are not part of the core product.
#labels Phase-Implementation,Deferred

= Introduction =

Need to revisit these items to make sure none of these are supposed to be in scope.


= Details =

  * Special offer on a product page (buy $50 worth of products, get another product free)
  * Product reviews
  * Is item in stock? (real time)
  * Add to favorites
  * View favorites
  * Multiple image views (different angles)
  * Special offer code (checkout coupon code) -- is this out of scope??
  * Collection of specialized demographics during account setup (date of birth, preferred email format, send email regarding orders, select which types of emails you want to receive, etc.)
  * Upsell items
  * Cross sell items
  * People who bought this also bought... 
  * Request return of an item
  * Order tracking
  * EVENTS: Plone manages information great, including event information. But people who run events have to be able to handle registrations. Registration is about information collection, connecting that to payment processing, and having a real-time record that can be used to manage registration (ie see how many people are registered at any given time, who has paid, etc). 
  * Upon completion of an order, provide a way to email an order confirmation to a user.
  * Need a way to have an area for defining product catalogs and then adding products to those catalogs. Product categories and subcategory definition will be needed to minimize the risk of scattering products throughout the site. 
  * Import / export product catalog